Story Recapped here. Today,
I'm going to explain an action,
horror, science fiction, and thriller film called
"Morgan." Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
Through the view of a surveillance camera, Dr.
Kathy Grieff enters a secured room and prepares
lunch. She calls Morgan, an artificial being with
synthetic D.N.A, and invites her over for a meal.
As Kathy sits down, Morgan
examines her own hands curiously.
Out of nowhere, Morgan pushes aside the plates
on the table, jumps on it, and proceeds to stab
Kathy. Luckily, two other doctors come
inside to intervene and sedate Morgan.
To further analyze the incident, SynSect, a
genetic engineering company, decides to consult
with an expert. A risk management specialist named
Lee Weathers receives a call demanding her urgent
response as an emergency happened in the company.
After a long drive, she arrives at a rural area
where Ted Brenner, the project manager, welcomes
her. Ted offers her a tour of the whole place,
but she politely declines, saying
that they should get down to business.
In the room, Lee meets Dr. Amy Menser, Morgan's
behaviorist, and discusses their work field. Amy's
friendliness is turned down by Lee's strict and
severe demeanor, cutting their interaction short.
Later, Lee comes down to the kitchen and meets
the team nutritionist, Skip Vronsky. Afterward,
Ted accompanies her to Kathy's room, where her
recovery is being monitored. Lee asks if she could
have a moment in private with Kathy to discuss
the attack’s nature immediately. Kathy is in a bad
state as her eye is still patched, but she claims
that she looks worse than she feels. According to
her, Morgan used to be happy and gentle until the
company decided to lock her inside the secluded
room. Despite Morgan being the reason behind
her wound, Kathy still holds her in high regard.
Lee then meets Dr. Simon Ziegler, who leads
the project known as "L-9." He explains the
nature of the project and its creation and how
synthetic D.N.A and nanotechnology are combined.
After two failed experiments, their successful
one so far is the creation of Morgan.
Because of the rapid growth rate of the organism,
Morgan could already walk and talk after a month
of her so-called "birth." According to Simon,
Morgan is everything they have hoped for—a hybrid
biological organism that can think and feel. After
Morgan's first birthday, she already looks like
a grown young woman. After, Simon shows Lee the
incident footage and adds that Morgan was allowed
exposure to the outside world at a young age,
which the others think was a mistake. However,
he still thinks that the project is gearing in
the right direction with enough conditioning.
Lee is toured inside Morgan's room to meet
her personally. In the line of recent events,
Lee is kept outside the room for
protection. Morgan is polite and
friendly during their first meeting, and she
even apologizes repeatedly for hurting Kathy,
claiming that it was unintentional.
After the ones in charge of her leave,
Morgan recalls a fond memory of her and
Amy in the woods. Apart from everyone,
she feels most comfortable with Amy, who
treats her more like a sister than a prototype.
At dinner, Lee joins the team for a meal and meets
other members: Doctors Darren and Brenda Finch,
who are a couple, and Dr. Lui Cheng, whom
Morgan considers as her "mother." Lee is
pleased to meet Lui as she thinks highly of her,
and they even converse in the latter's language.
She explains that her job is to assess
risk against the company's profit,
and she refers to Morgan as an object
rather than someone who has feelings.
On the table, they also discuss a similar
project in Helsinki, in which prototypes killed
21 researchers. To the team's defense, Simon says
that Morgan is much more advanced than the others.
After the meal, Lee browses through old videos of
Morgan to assess her behavior, but the computer
glitches. To her surprise, Morgan looks directly
at her intently through the surveillance camera,
but she pays no mind to it. Later that night, Lee
and Skip share a conversation over some drinks.
He tells her that he and Amy used to have a fling
in the past, which Amy overhears from a distance.
Skip makes a move and kisses Lee not long after,
but he apologizes for it right
away, and the two say good night.
Meanwhile, Amy walks over to Morgan's room
to spend some time with her. She disables
the cameras before approaching Morgan's cell to
remind her about the psychological test tomorrow.
Amy assures her that everything will turn out
fine as long as she stays true to herself. The
two of them lay their hands on the glass as an act
of sisterly love and affection. To ease Morgan's
worries, Amy tells her about the beautiful Lake
Navar, a place where she'll take her someday.
Morgan gets a flashback of her and Amy out in the
woods on one sunny day. Not far from their spot,
Morgan sees an injured deer impaled on
a branch and approaches the poor animal.
After caressing it, Morgan suddenly breaks
its neck as an act of mercy, which shocks Amy.
The day of Morgan's psychological analysis arrives
and is to be conducted by Dr. Alan Shapiro.
He is supposed to sit outside the room while
examining Morgan, but he thinks that the
interaction will be pointless. Claiming that
it is his job to build trust with the subject,
Alan decides to enter the room despite the team's
warnings. He sits across Morgan and is surprised
that she knows his name and the reason for his
visit. The first question Alan asks Morgan is
the reason behind her sadness, to which she
replies that it is about the incident with Kathy.
At this point, Alan takes note of Morgan's
remorse after doing something terrible.
He then questions Morgan about her life inside
the room and how she feels about being locked up.
When Morgan says that she is pleased, he throws
more questions that slightly make her tearful.
In the middle of their conversation, Morgan
fires questions about Alan's daughter,
whom he seldom sees, a topic that catches
him off-guard. Alan loses his cool and starts
raising his voice at Morgan while asking how
she would react if he recommended the doctors
terminate her. Unexpectedly, Morgan sheds
a tear and reaches her breaking point after
Alan's pressuring words. Morgan looks at her hands
and pushes Alan against the wall, lunging at him.
She bites hard into his throat and rips
a chunk out, leaving the doctor bloody.
The team is alerted by the commotion, and
Darren attempts to sedate Morgan once again.
However, Morgan uses Alan as a shield and advances
at Darren, whom she knocks to the ground. When Lee
tries to calm her down, the lights go out,
and Morgan escapes in the blink of an eye.
Lee quickly grabs a tranquilizer to prevent her
from escaping. Outside, Morgan feels sunlight
for the first time in months and sees Amy waiting
for the evaluation results. With her face caked in
blood, she feels a sense of comfort upon seeing
Amy but is abruptly swept when Lee sedates her.
Inside the lab, Morgan regains consciousness
and apologizes for her actions.
The team of doctors debates on what to do
with her and what is best for the company.
Cheng is certain of terminating
Morgan, but Simon persuades her not to,
as it will waste their years of work. Once they
reach the final decision of getting rid of her,
Simon sadly walks away, disappointed by the
verdict authorized by Lee. The whole team
gets emotional upon preparing the termination
procedure, as Morgan has grown close to their
hearts and has been a part of their daily routine.
Morgan tearfully pleads with everyone in the room
to not kill her, even calling Cheng "mother," but
she coldly says that she is not her mother. After
sedating Morgan, Cheng apologizes for failing
her and walks away. While she lays unconscious,
Darren prepares the lethal injection but
changes his mind and leaves the lab with Brenda.
Without the medical team in sight,
Lee decides to do it herself,
but Ted stops her from doing so. Lee hits
him in the face and holds him at gunpoint,
but Amy shoots her with a sedative, causing
her to doze off. As she regains consciousness,
she finds herself locked inside
Morgan's room while Ted stands outside.
Lee commands him to let her out before the
higher-ups arrive, but he ignores her.
Amy, Ted, Brenda, and Darren gather supplies
to get Morgan out of the lab safely. Amy tries
to wake Morgan up, but she is too weak to respond,
so Darren tries to sit her down. However, Morgan's
personality shifts and she headbutts Darren in
the face. While he is on the ground, Morgan grabs
the lethal injection and sticks it in Darren's
chest, ultimately killing him. Ted holds a gun
to her face in an attempt to stop her, but Morgan
manages to grab the pistol and shoots him instead.
The wounded Ted makes his way back to Morgan's
room, but she shoots him again as Lee watches.
In an intimidating manner, Morgan turns to Lee
to say that she feels like herself now that she
is free. She cuts the conversation short and
leaves Lee locked inside the glass room.
Outside, Brenda instructs the clueless Skip to
be ready to leave while she loads the supplies
in the car. When Skip sees Amy walking
alongside Morgan, he senses that something
is amiss and runs back to the building to
look for Lee. As Brenda reunites with Amy,
she asks about Darren's whereabouts, but
Amy could not utter any word at the moment.
Morgan points a gun at Brenda from behind, but the
doctor fights back and gets into a brawl with her.
However, Morgan's strength remains unmatched,
eventually beating Brenda to death.
Amy is lost for words, but Morgan
assures her that she is safe with her.
Hungry for revenge, Morgan makes her way back
to the house, where she sees Kathy, who tries
to approach her in a friendly way. However,
Morgan kicks her in the head until she dies.
Meanwhile, Lee manages to escape by climbing to
the top of the glass ceiling and breaking it.
Outside, she sees Skip, still shaken by the
devastating deaths occurring in the house,
and instructs him to grab a weapon.
While Cheng makes a video confession of the
incident during Morgan's psychological analysis,
Morgan enters her room and walks toward her.
After Morgan gives her a kiss on the forehead,
Cheng is suffocated to death, and her murder
is caught on camera. In another room, Lee sees
the lifeless Simon hung from a cabinet,
an act that Morgan has also carried out.
Upon discovering Cheng's corpse, Lee inspects
the room for any signs of Morgan, who emerges
from one of the corners to attack her. Both of
them get into a brawl, taking turns throwing each
other across the room. As the fight progresses,
they accidentally throw themselves outside the
window and land where Amy's car is parked.
Skip tries to stop Morgan, but she knocks him
down and drives out of the area. Determined to
catch Morgan, Lee gets in her car as well and
prompts a blood-pumping car chase through the
woods. While driving, Morgan manages to bump
Lee's car enough times for her to crash into
a big tree. Though Amy begs for her to stop,
Morgan continues to drive, utterly unmoved by
the destruction she has caused. To Lee's luck,
she survives the crash and is rescued by Skip, who
claims to know where Morgan and Amy are headed.
In the vast forest, Morgan and Amy find their
way to Lake Navar, a journey they awaited for
so long. Despite Morgan's claims not to harm her,
Amy remains vigilant and keeps a weapon with her.
Upon arriving at their destination, Morgan
sheds a tear of joy over the breathtaking
view of the lake. For the first time in
her life, she feels more alive than ever,
experiencing the true freedom she craves.
Meanwhile, Lee grabs Skip's rifle and
goes to the woods to kill Morgan herself.
She fires a shot, grabbing Morgan's attention, who
also decides to return to the woods and fight her.
When Lee gets a sight of Morgan, she fires a shot
but misses. From behind, Morgan catches up on Lee
and initiates another brawl in the middle of the
forest. After numerous punches are thrown at each
other, Morgan pushes Lee to a trunk where she
gets impaled by a branch, just like the deer.
To Morgan's surprise, Lee follows her back
to the lake and pushes her into the water.
She then proceeds to hold Morgan underwater until
she drowns to death and leaves. Lee plants another
kill by grabbing Amy's weapon effortlessly
and shoots her before she kills Skip as well.
The company head, Jim Bryce, discusses the
incident to other board members and declares
the project involving Morgan a failure. One
of his associates asks about Lee Weathers,
to which Bryce replies that she is perfect.
After carrying out her mission successfully,
Lee goes to a local restaurant and looks at
her hands—a gesture similar to Morgan's.
Unexpectedly, Morgan and Lee have far
more in common than what is portrayed.
Their same gestures and superhuman strengths
demonstrate that Lee was once a prototype as well.
It turns out Lee is just on an
undercover duty to monitor the
project and test Morgan's abilities against
hers. It insinuates that just like Morgan,
she is also bioengineered to carry out special
missions that she can successfully ace on her own.
With the associates discussing Lee's
perfection, it is proven that she
is a successful product of their modern
technology and is their best asset so far.